[CUMULUS-3172] Update data integrity/migration docs (#3387)
nasa/cumulus: docs/upgrade-notes/rds-phase-3-data-migration-guidance.md

With this bug we believe Dynamo is the source of truth, and ‘excess’ older granules will be left in postgres.     This should be detectable with tooling/query to detect duplicate granuleIds in the granules table.

### Issue 5:

https://bugs.earthdata.nasa.gov/browse/CUMULUS-3024

This is a sub-issue of issue 2 above - due to the way we assign a PDR name to a record, if the `pdr` field is missing from the final payload for a granule as part of a workflow message write, the final granule record will not link the PDR to the granule properly in postgres, however the dynamo record *will* have the linked PDR.       This *can* happen in situations where the granule is written prior to completion with the PDR in the payload, but then downstream only the granule object is included, particularly in multi-workflow ingest scenarios and/or bulk update situations.

## Immediate Actions

1. Re-review the issues described above
    - GHRC was able to scope the affected granules to specific collections, which makes the recovery process much easier. This may not be an option for all DAACs.

> 2. If you have not ingested granules or performed partial granule updates on affected Cumulus versions (questions 1 and 2 on the survey), no action is required. You may update to the latest version of Cumulus.

Reviewer: I was going to comment above when you referenced the versions that had the fix for issue 1 that Eddie thought it would make more sense to tell them which releases were affected that they may have been doing ingest on. But since you reference the survey questions here (which listed affected versions), I think that works.

Author: Yeah I actually did consider more detail here around the impacted versions in the issue descriptions. I'm hesitant because I don't think these docs are really intended to introduce the issues and provide guidance for someone that hasn't been tracking the conversation. Referring back to earlier steps (like the survey) reinforces that I think.

3. One option to ensure your Postgres data matches Dynamo is running the data-migration lambda (see below for instructions) before updating to the latest Cumulus version if both of the following are true:
    - you have ingested granules using an affected Cumulus version
    - your DAAC has not had any operations that updated an existing granule with an empty files array (granule.files = [])

4. A second option for DAACs that have ingested data using an affected Cumulus version is to use your DAAC’s recovery tools or reingest the affected granules. This is likely the most certain method for ensuring Postgres contains the correct data but may be infeasible depending on the size of data holdings, etc..

## Guidance Going Forward

> 1. Before updating to Cumulus version 16.x and beyond, take a snapshot of your DynamoDB instance. The v16 update removes the DynamoDB tables. This snapshot would be for use in emergencies only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Before updating to Cumulus version 16.x and beyond, take a snapshot of your DynamoDB instance. The v16 update removes the DynamoDB tables. This snapshot would be for use in unexpected data recovery scenarios only.
```

Author: haha yup. Makes sense.

> 2. Cumulus recommends that you regularly backup your Cumulus RDS database. The frequency will depend on each DAAC’s comfort level, datastore size, and time available but we recommend regular backups. https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/USER_CreateSnapshot.html

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Cumulus recommends that you establish and follow a database backup/disaster recovery protocol for your RDS database, which should include periodic backups.  The frequency will depend on each DAAC’s database architecture, comfort level, datastore size, and time available. https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/USER_CreateSnapshot.html
```

> 3. Invest future development effort in data validation/integrity tools. Each DAAC has different procedures and requirements here. Each DAAC should maintain procedures for validating their Cumulus datastore against their current holdings.

Reviewer 2: Do we mean *development* efforts so much as procedural efforts?        Meaning is our guidance *build software*?

```suggestion
3. Invest future development effort in data validation/integrity tools and procedures. Each DAAC has different requirements here. Each DAAC should maintain procedures for validating their Cumulus datastore against their holdings.
```

Author: Nice. Much clearer.
